Hello, my name is Max Boivin and I am the creator of WinterDawn RPG

Today I'd like to present you the basic dice mechanics of WinterDawn rpg and the different types of test available for different situations.

In WinterDawn, almost everything is a skill test.

There is skills for attacking, there is skills for casting magic, there is a skill for recovering from wounds, etc.

Each skills is linked to one or more attributes.

Six attributes exist: Agility, Power, Constitution, Erudition, Persona and Sagacity.

WinterDawn use a Dice Pool mechanics.

You will need a few sets of polyhedral dice to play WinterDawn.

Whenever you have to make a test, the rank of the skill determine how many dice you're going to use, while the level of the attribute will determine the type of dice to use.

Your Dice Pool contains one dice plus one for every ranks in the skills.

The type of dice composing this dice pool can have no more face than the level of the attribute governing the skill.

For example, if you have to do a stealth test, a skill govern by agility, if you have 2 ranks in stealth and an agility of 8, you can roll 3 dice with 8 faces, refered as 3d8.

Each die showing a 4 or more count as a Measure of Success, refered to as MoS.

If a die show a 8 it will count as 2 MoSes.

If you were to roll bigger dice, like 12 sided or 20 sided dice, every multiple of four gives one MoS.

A die showing between 12 and 16 count for 3 MoSes while a die showing between 16 and 19 count for 4 MoSes and a 20 count for 5 MoSes.

Player's character should not readily access 20 sided dice for their attributes; this is intended for epic monsters like dragons.

All die showing a 1 negate one success.

It is possible to end up with a negative number of success.

If the roll cumulate more MoSes than  the level of difficulty, the roll is successful.  If not, the attempt fails.

This difficulty leve is either determined by the GM, by a roll from an opposing character or from environemental circumstances.

Different situations will requiere different type of test.

A static test is the most basic type of test.

It is when a player rolls against a fixed difficulty level determined by the GM or by environemental circumstances.

An opposed test is used when a character is opposed by a different character.

In this case, each player roll their dice pool and the character with the most MoSes wins.

The previous example of stealth woul be a test opposed by a perception & vigilance test from one or more other character.

The GM should determine before the rolls which side has the advantage, if any.  

In case of a tie, the side with the advantage will be successful.

To continue with the stealth example, if the opposing character is actively looking for intruder, they might have the advantage.

If they are doing something else, the stealthing player will have the advantage.

Open-ended test are for situation where there is no clearly defined difficulty level but where the number of MoSes obtained will determine how well the task is performed. 

Rolling test are for task which can be worked on continiously.  

The player can do multiple roll and add the MoSes togheter.  

Rolling test are sub-divided in two type: First-fail and step-back.

In First-Fail rolling test, the player can keep rolling until the task is successful or until one roll gives no MoS. 

Spell Casting is done through first-fail rolling test.

In Step-Back rolling test, the player can keep rolling until the task is done or until the total number of MoS cumulated reach 0.

Rolls with negative number of MoS reduce the number of cumulated MoS.

Crafting is usually done as Step-Back Rolling test.

In both First-Fail and Step-Back rolling test, each rolls takes an amount of time wich can vary from a few second to days or weeks.

Assisted test are for when more than one character work at a task.

Each player roll their dice pool and add togheter their MoSes.

Having two characters trying to move an heavy rock could be done as an assisted test.

A subtype of the assisted test is the assited test halved, where one main character perform the task while the assistant add only half their moses to the total.

A group test is required when all the characters try to simultanously acheive a task where the outcome is collective.

The difficulty level is multiplied by the number of characters involved and the MoS of each player are added togheter.

It is made to represent how one  overperforming character can help another for their shortcomings.

If a group of characters try to hide from a guard, the perception and vigilance test result of the guard will be multiplied by the number of characters in the group.  

Each player will will then roll their stealth and add the MoSes togheter.

If the total stealth is greater than the multplied perception and vigilance, the group is succesful.  

Composed test require two or more rolls with different skills.

The MoSes are added togheter to beat a difficulty level.

Composed rolling test will have the player alternate between the skills required.

For example, picking a lock require mechanics and sleight of hand.

The lock will have a certain difficulty level and the player will alternate between the two skills, adding their MoSes to beat this difficulty level.

All those types of test can be mixed togheter in different situations.

You can therefore have opposed step-back rolling assisted halved composed test, like in the case of a pursuit, where one side will roll tracking and resist fatigue while the other would roll stealth and resist fatigue.

Those type of test should be seen more as modifiers than as completly separate entity.

Thank you for watching this rather lenghty video.

If you have any questions you can asked them in the comments below or send an email to maxboivin@winterdawnrpg.com.

For more information about WinterDawn RPG you can head to winterdawnrpg.com.

If you are interested in participating in the playtest of WinterDawn, please write to us at PlayTest@winterdawnrpg.com.

The link to our website and our email address can be found in the description below.

In the next video, we will look at resounding succes, complete failure, hits and losses.