Hello, my name is Max Boivin and I am the creator of WinterDawn RPG

Today we will look at a central mechanics of WinterDawn, spirit.

Spirit represent a mix of the stamina and the moral of the character.

Spirit will vary greatly during the game.

Being in harsh conditions, fighting, starving, lacking sleep will al reduce drain the spirit of the character.

Mery making, having resounding success, participating in a feast and similar activities can help a character recover spirit.

Spirit limit the size of the dice pool of the character.

A dice pool can never have more dice than the amount of spirit points held by the character.

In effect, if a character has their spirit reduced to 0, they can not perform any test.

Spirit can also be spent to increase a dice pool.

You can spend 1 spirit points per dice currently in your dice pool to add an extra die.

You can add multiple dice in that way but you can not double your dice pool in that way.

For example, a character with 2 ranks in stealth will have a dice pool with 3 dice.  

The player can decide to purchase an additional dice for a roll by spending 3 spirit points.

If the player wants a second extra dice, raising their dice pool to 5 dice, they must spend an additional 4 spirit points.

The player can not purchase a third dice since this would double the dice pool.

Skills with no ranks can not be increased via spirit points.

The maximum amount of spirit points a character has is equals to thier constitution plus their sagacity plus their persona.

Increasing one of those attributes will increase the maximum amount of spirit points.

Thank you for watching.

If you have any questions you can asked them in the comments below or send an email to maxboivin@winterdawnrpg.com.

For more information about WinterDawn RPG you can head to winterdawnrpg.com.

If you are interested in participating in the playtest of WinterDawn, please write to us at PlayTest@winterdawnrpg.com.

The link to our website and our email address can be found in the description below.

In the next video, we will look at a big part of the game, combat.