Hello, my name is Max Boivin and I am the creator of WinterDawn RPG

Today we will look at attack of opportunity and grapple rules.

Attack of opportunity is an attack that can be made as a reaction when some cirumstances arise.

The most common circumstances allowing you to perfrom an attack of opportunity are the following:

A character moving inside your range of attack.

A character doing a range attack inside your range of attack.

A character casting a spell inside your range of attack.

A character fixing a wound inside your range of attack.

A character reloading a weapon inside your range of attack.

A character doing a reflex roll to avoid a range attack.

Any other actions made inside your range of attack that require the character to devote its attention to something else than fighting you.

When performing an attack of opportunity, you recive an additional 1 die to your dice pool.  

Therefore, even if you used all your dice pool, you can still perform an attack of opportunity with one die.

Only one attack of opportunity can be done per round.

Grappling give access to special options in combat.

To grapple someone, you must be a close range and have a brawling close range weapon or a free hand and score 2 hits on a brawling attack.

A grappled character receive -1 MoS on all their power and agility rolls.

Their speed is also reduced to 0.

The grappler and the grappled can only attack each other.

A grappled character can become the grappler by scoring 1 hit on a brawling attack.

Tow or more character can grapple a target.

In this case, the more numerous side will always be the grappler.

THe malus on power and agility roll suffered by the grappled character is cumulative.

Grappling give acces to some special control actions.

For 1 hit, the grappler can move with the grapppled 1 metre.

For 2 hits, the grappler can throw the grappled character on the ground or off a ledge.

The grappled can decide to go on the ground with the grappled and make them pinned.

A pinened character receive -2 MoS to all their power and agility rolls.

A pinned character can reverse the situation by spending 2 hits on a brawling attack.

A grappling character can try to choke the grappled character by spending 3 hits on a brawling attacks.

A choke can be broken by spending 2 hits on a brawling attack.

A chocked character can not become the grappler until they break the choke first.

At the start of their turn, a chocked character must make a resist fatigue test.

This test does not count as part of the dice pool used.

The difficulty for this test is equals to the number of rounds passed since the start of the choke.

If the test is failed, the character becomes unconcious.

The character can regain consciousness by scoring 10 MoS on a resist fatigue step-back rolling test.

It is possible to cause damage to a grappled character.

The hits scored on a brawling attack can be used to roll damage dice.

If the damage is of type piercing or cutting, the protection from the armour is ignored.

Thank you for watching this video.

If you have any questions you can asked them in the comments below or send an email to maxboivin@winterdawnrpg.com.

For more information about WinterDawn RPG you can head to winterdawnrpg.com.

If you are interested in participating in the playtest of WinterDawn, please write to us at PlayTest@winterdawnrpg.com.

The link to our website and our email address can be found in the description below.

In the next video, we will continue looking at combat with special manoeuvres.